    
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
 
HEALTH INSURANCE POLICY –RETAIL 
 
This Policy  is issued to the Insured  based on the Proposal  and declaration together with any statement, repor t or 
other document which shall be the basis of this con tract and shall be deemed to be incorporated herein , to Insurer  
upon payment of the Premium.  This Policy  records the agreement between Insurer  and Insured  and sets out the 
terms of insurance and the obligations of each part y. 
 
The Policy, the Schedule and any Endorsement shall be read together and any word or expression to whic h a 
specific meaning has been attached in any part of t his Policy or of Schedule shall bear such meaning w henever 
it may appear. 
  
Subject to the terms, Conditions, exclusions and de finitions contained herein or endorsed or otherwise  
expressed hereon, Insurer undertakes to pay the Ins ured Person the hospitalization expenses arising ou t of an 
Injury or Illness/Disease and that are reasonably a nd necessarily incurred by or on behalf of such Ins ured Person, 
but not exceeding the sum Insured for the insured p erson as mentioned in the schedule of the policy. T he 
following benefits are covered under this policy su bject to the sub-limits as stipulated in the policy  contract. 
 
  Room, Boarding Expenses  
 Medical Practitioners fees 
 Intensive Care Unit 
 Nursing Expenses 
 Surgical fees, operating theatre, Anesthetist, Anes thesia, Blood, Oxygen and their administration,  
 Physio therapy while being treated as inpatient and  being part of the treatment. 
 Drugs and medicines consumed during hospitalization  period. 
 Hospital miscellaneous services (such as laboratory , X-ray, diagnostic tests) 
 Dressing, ordinary splints and plaster casts. 
 Cost of Prosthetic devices if implanted during a su rgical procedure. 
 
Note: Insurer’s Liability in respect of all claims admitted during the period of insurance shall not e xceed the Sum 
Insured for the Insured person as mentioned in the schedule. 
 
 
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
The following words or terms shall have the meaning  ascribed to them wherever they appear in this Poli cy, and 
references to the singular or to the masculine shal l include references to the plural and to the femin ine wherever 
the context so permits: 
 
"Accident " means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external and visible means. 
 
"Accidental Bodily Injury " means any accidental physical bodily harm solely and directly caused by external, 
violent and visible means which is verified and cer tified by a Medical Practitioner but does not include any 
sickness or disease. 
     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
“Administrator ” means any third party administrator engaged by th e Insurer  for providing Policy  and claims 
facilitation services to the Insured  as well as to the Insurer  and who is duly licensed by IRDA for the said 
purpose. 
 
“Age ” means completed years as at the Commencement Date  of the Policy Period . 
 
“Any One Illness ” means any continuous period of illness and which includes a relapse within 45 days from 
the date of discharge from the Hospital/Nursing Hom e where treatment may have been taken and for which  
a claim had been made with the Insurer.  Occurrence  of same illness after a lapse of 45 days as stated  above 
will be considered as fresh illness for the purpose  of this Policy. 
 
“Co-Payment ” means the agreed share of the claim amount which is to be borne by the Insured  for each 
Hospitalisation /claim.  
 
“Day Care Expenses”  means the Reasonable and Customary Expenses incurred towards  medical treatment 
for a Day Care Treatment  /Procedure preauthorized by the Administrator  and done in a Network Hospital  
/ Day Care Centre to the extent that such cost does  not exceed the Reasonable and Customary Expenses  in 
the locality for the same Day Care Treatment  / Procedure. 
 
“Day Care Hospital/Centre ” means a special facility, or an arrangement withi n a Hospital  setting, that 
enables the patient to come to the Hospital  for treatment during the day and return home or to  another 
facility at night.  
 
“Day care Treatments ” Day care treatment refers to medical treatment, a nd/or surgical procedure which 
is: 
- undertaken under General or Local Anaesthesia in a Hospital /day care centre in less than 24 hrs because 
of technological advancement, and - which would hav e otherwise required a Hospitalisation  of more than 
24 hours. Treatment normally taken on an out-patien t basis is not included in the scope of this defini tion. 
 
“Diagnostic Centre ” means the diagnostic centers which have been empa nelled by Insurer  or Administrator  
as per the latest version of the Schedule  of diagnostic centers maintained by Insurer or Administrator , 
which is available to Insured  on request. 
 
“Dependent Child/Children”  means children / a child (natural or legally adopt ed), who are/is financially 
dependent on the Insured  or Proposer  aged between 3 months and twenty three (23) years and who are 
unmarried   
 
“Disease / Illness”  means a condition affecting the general well being  and health of the body that first 
manifests itself in the Policy Period  and which requires treatment by a Medical Practitioner .  
  
“Domiciliary Hospitalisation ” means Medical treatment for a period exceeding th ree days for such 
Illness/ Disease /Injury which in the normal course would require ca re and treatment at a Hospital /nursing 
home but actually taken whilst confined at home in India under any of the following circumstances name ly 
: 
 The condition of the patient is such that he/she ca nnot be removed to the Hospital /nursing Home 
or 
 The patient cannot be removed to Hospital /nursing home for lack of accommodation therein 
subject however that domiciliary Hospitalisation  benefits shall not cover:-     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
o Expenses incurred for pre and post Domiciliary Hosp italisation treatment or  
o Expenses incurred for treatment for any of the foll owing Disease s 
o Asthma 
o Bronchitis 
o Chronic Nephritis and Nephritic Syndrome 
o Diarrhea and all type of Dysenteries including Gast ro-enteritis 
o Diabetes Mellitus and Insipidus 
o Epilepsy 
o Hypertension 
o Influenza, Cough and Cold 
o All Psychiatric or Psychosomatic Disorders 
o Pyrexia of unknown Origin for less than 10 days 
o Tonsillitis and Upper Respiratory Tract Infection i ncluding Laryngitis and 
Pharingitis 
o Arthritis, Gout and Rheumatism 
 
“Eligible Hospitalisation Expenses” means the expenses which the Insured /Insured Person  is entitled for 
applicable room rent and other charges as given in the scope of cover under the policy. 
 
“Epidemic Disease ” means a Disease  which occurs when new cases of a certain Disease , in a given human 
population, and during a given period, substantiall y exceed what is the normal "expected" Incidence Ra te 
based on recent experience (the number of new cases  in the population during a specified period of tim e 
is called the "Incidence Rate"). 
 
“Excess ” means the % of sum insured/claim or amount up to which all Expenses  covered by this Policy  are 
to be borne by the Insured  for which the Policy  benefits will not be available and before the liability of the 
Insurer is commenced . 
 
“External Congenital Anomaly ” means a condition(s) which is present since birth , in the Visible and an 
accessible part of the body and which is abnormal w ith reference to form, structure or Position. 
 
“Family ” means and includes Insured Person /Insured Person ’s legal Spouse, Insured Person ’s legal & 
dependent children and dependent parents 
 
“Grace Period ” means the specified period of 15 days  immediatel y following the premium due date during 
which a payment can be made to renew or continue a Policy  in force without loss of continuity benefits 
such as waiting periods and coverage of Pre-existing condition / Diseases . Coverage is not available for the 
period for which no premium is received.  
 
“Hospital/Nursing Home ”: means any institution established for in- patien t care and day care treatment of 
sickness and / or injuries and which has been regis tered as a Hospital  with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable, and is under the supervision of a regis tered and qualified Medical Practitioner OR must comply 
with all minimum criteria as under: 
- has at least 10 inpatient beds, in those towns ha ving a population of less than 10,00,000 and 15 
inpatient beds in all other places; 
- has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock; 
- has qualified Medical Practitioner  (s) in charge round the clock; 
- has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own  where surgical procedures are carried out     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
- maintains daily records of patients and will make  these accessible to the  Insurer’s authorized 
personnel. 
 
“Hospitalisation ” means the Insured’s  admission into Hospital  for a continuous period of not less than 24 
hours. 
 
“Insured ” means You/Your/Self/the person named in the Schedule , who is a citizen and resident of  India 
and for whom the insurance is proposed and appropri ate premium paid. 
 
“Insured Person ” means the person named in the Schedule /who is a resident of India and for whom the 
insurance is proposed and appropriate premium paid.  This includes Insured Person ’s family inclusive of 
dependent parents  
 
“Insurer ” means Us/Our/We SBI General Insurance Company Limited . 
 
“Inpatient Care”  means care or treatment for which the Insured Pers on has to be hospitalized for more 
than 24 hours. 
 
“Intensive Care Unit ” means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital  which is under the constant 
supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner (s), and which is specially equipped for the contin uous 
monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a c ritical condition, or require life support faciliti es and 
where the level of care and supervision is consider ably more sophisticated and intensive than in the 
ordinary and other wards. 
 
“Internal Congenital Anomaly ” means Disease  not manifested externally resulting from congenita l disorder 
due to defects in or damage to a developing fetus. It may be the result of genetic abnormalities, the 
intrauterine (uterus) environment, errors of morpho genesis, or a chromosomal abnormality. 
 
“Medical Expenses ” mean reasonable & customary Expenses  unavoidably and reasonably incurred by the 
Insured  for medical treatment of Disease , illness or injury that may be the subject matter of claim as an In-
patient in a Hospital  / Nursing Home/Day Care Centre, and includes the c osts of a bed; treatment and care 
by medical staff; medical procedures; Medical Practitioner ’s fees; medicines and consumables including 
cost of pacemaker, implants,  as long as these are recommended by the attending Medical Practitioner . 
 
“Medical Practitioner”: means a person who holds a valid registration from the medical council of any state 
of India and is thereby entitled to practice medici ne within its jurisdiction; and is acting within th e scope 
and jurisdiction of his license. The term Medical Practitioner would include Physician, Specialist and 
Surgeon. The registered Medical Practitioner  should not be the  Insured  or any one of the close family 
members of the Insured . 
 
“Mental Illness/Disease ” means any mental Disease  or bodily condition marked by disorganization of 
personality, mind, and emotions to impair the norma l psychological, social or work performance of the 
individual regardless of its cause or origin. 
 
“Network Hospital ” means the institutions (Hospitals/Nursing Homes a s defined earlier) named on a list 
maintained by and available from the Administrator , and the same list may be amended from time to tim e 
by Administrator  and Insurer . 
     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
“Non  Network Hospital ” are those Hospitals/Nursing Homes which are outsi de the network of 
Hospitals/Nursing Homes as maintained on the list a nd made available by the Administrator and the Insu rer. 
 
“Other  Insurer ” means any of the registered Insurer s in India other than Us/Our/We SBI General Insuran ce 
Company Limited. 
 
“Out Patient Department ” means a department where patient is not Hospital ized and who is being treated 
in an office, clinic, or other ambulatory care faci lity by Medical Practitioner  for illness/ Disease . 
 
“Package Service Expenses” : means expenses levied by the Hospital/Nursing Home for treatment of 
specific surgical procedures/medical ailments as a lump sum amount under agreed package charges based 
on the room criteria as defined in the tariff Schedule  of the Hospital/Nursing Home . 
 
“Pre-existing Condition ” means any condition, ailment or injury or related  condition(s) for which  Insured  
had signs or symptoms, and / or were diagnosed, and  / or received medical advice / treatment within 48  
months prior to the first Policy  issued by the Insurer . 
 
“Policy Period”  means the period commencing with the commencement date of the Policy  & terminating 
with the expiry date of the Policy  as stated in the Policy  Schedule . 
 
“Post - Hospitalisation Expenses ” means relevant Medical Expenses  incurred during period up to 60  days 
after Hospitalisation  on Disease /Illness/Accidental Bodily Injury sustained.  Such Expenses  will be 
considered as part of claim limited to treatment wh ich is continued after discharge for an ailment / Disease  
/ Accidental Bodily Injury not different from the o ne for which Hospitalisation  was necessary.  
 
“Pre - Hospitalisation Expenses ” means relevant medical Expenses  incurred during period up to 30 days 
prior to Hospitalisation  on Disease /Illness/Injury sustained. Such Expenses  will be considered as part of 
claim limited to treatment which is taken before Hospitalisation  for an ailment / Disease  / injury not 
different from the one for which Hospitalisation  was necessary. 
 
“Proposal ” means the written application or a standard form which the Insured  duly fills and signs in with 
complete details seeking insurance are provided by him and includes any other information Insured  
provides to the insurer in the said form or in any communication with the  Insurer seeking such insurance.  
 
“Proposer ” means the person furnishing complete details and information in the Proposal  form for availing 
the benefits either for himself or towards the pers on to be covered under the Policy  and consents to the 
terms of the contract of Insurance  by way of signing the same. 
 
“Qualified Nurse ” means a person who holds a valid registration fro m the Nursing Council of India or the 
Nursing Council of any state in India. 
   
“Reasonable and Customary Expenses ” means a charge which: a) is charged for medical t reatment, 
supplies or medical services that are medically nec essary to treat Insured’s  condition; and b) does not 
exceed the usual level of Expenses  for similar medical treatment, supplies or medical  services in the locality 
where the expense is incurred; and c) does not incl ude Expenses  that would not have been made if no 
insurance existed. 
     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
“Schedule ” means that portion of the Policy  which sets out Insured  details, the type of Insurance  cover in 
force, the Policy Period  and the Sum Insured .  Any Annexure and/or Endorsement to the Schedule  shall 
also be a part of the Schedule . 
 
“Sum Insured ” means the specified amount mentioned in the Schedule  to this Policy which represents the 
Insurer’s  maximum liability for any or all claims under this  policy during the currency of the Policy subject 
to terms and conditions as stated in the Policy. 
 
 “Surgical Operation ” means manual and/or operative procedures required  for treatment of a Disease  / 
Illness or Accidental Bodily Injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of Disease s, 
relief of suffering or prolongation of life, perfor med in a Hospital  or day care centre by a Medical 
Practitioner . 
 
“Waiting Period: ” No benefit shall be payable during the term of th e Policy  for the claim which occurs or 
where the hospitalisation for the claim has occurre d within 30 days of first Policy  issue Date. Waiting period 
is not applicable for the subsequent continuous uni nterrupted renewals and hospitalisation due to 
accidents. 
 
SCOPE OF COVER 
   
Insurer  shall pay the expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred by or on behalf of the Insured Person unde r 
the following categories but not exceeding the Sum Insured and subject to deduction of any excess as r eflected 
in the policy schedule in respect of such Insured person  as specified in the Schedule: 
 
1.  Room, Board & Nursing expenses as charged by the Ho spital/Nursing Home Excluding registration and 
service Expenses are covered up to 1% of the Sum Insured  per day and  if admitted into Intensive Care Unit 
up to 2% of the Sum Insured  per day under the policy.  
 
All admissible claims under Room, Board & Nursing E xpenses including ICU, during the policy period are  
restricted maximum up to 25% of the Sum Insured per illness/injury. 
 
2.  Medical Practitioner , Surgeon, Anesthetist, Consultants, and Specialist s Fees - All admissible claims under 
this section during the policy period restricted ma ximum up to 40% of the Sum Insured per illness/injury. 
 
3.  Anesthesia, Blood, Oxygen, Operation Theatre Expens es, Surgical Appliances, Medicines & consumables, 
Diagnostic expenses and X-ray, Dialysis, Chemothera py, Radiotherapy, Cost of Pacemaker, 
prosthesis/internal implants and any medical Expens es incurred which is integral part of the operation  - All 
admissible claims under this section during the pol icy period restricted maximum up to 40% of the Sum 
Insured per illness/injury. 
 
The amounts payable under points no. 2 and 3 shall be at the rate applicable to the entitled room 
category. In case the insured opts for a room with rent higher than the entitled category as under poi nt 
no. 1, the charges payable under point 1, 2 and 3 s hall be limited to the charges applicable to the en titled 
category.  
 
4.  Cataract Treatment:  Our obligation to make payment in respect of any c laim for treatment of Cataract 
including surgery thereof under the policy is limit ed to 15 % of the Sum Insured subject to a maximum of 
INR 25000 per eye and further subject to first two years exclusion for cataract as provided under the Policy.     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
 
5.  Pre-Hospitalisation Expenses:  The maximum amount that can be claimed under this head is limited to 10% 
of the Eligible Hospitalisation Expenses  for each of the admitted hosipitalisation claim un der the Policy. 
 
6.  Post-Hospitalisation Expenses:  The maximum amount that can be claimed under this head is limited to 
10% of the Eligible Hospitalisation Expenses  for each of the admitted hosipitalisation claim un der the 
Policy. 
 
7.  Day Care Expenses:  Insurer  shall pay for Day Care Expenses incurred on techno logical surgeries and 
procedures requiring less than 24 hours of Hospitalisation  as per Annexure A (day care procedure in the 
Policy), forming part of this Policy up to the Sum Insured . The day care Expenses will be payable only if, 
prior approval has been provided by the Administrator  or Insurer  for such a day care procedure.  
 
8.  Ambulance Expenses:  1% of Sum Insured per Policy period up to a maximum of INR 1500 will be reimbursed 
to Insured  for the cost of ambulance transportation.  Ambulance services used should be of a licensed 
ambulance operator. 
 
9.  Ayurvedic Medicine: Ayurvedic Treatment covered up to maximum 15% of Sum Insured per Policy Period 
up to a maximum of INR 20000 subject to treatment t aken at a Ayurvedic hospital confirming with our 
definition of hospital and which is registered with  any of the local  Government bodies for the said p urpose.  
 
10.   Homeopathic and Unani system of medicine:  Homeopathy and Unani Treatment covered up to maxim um 
10% of Sum Insured per Policy Period up to a maximum of INR 15000 subj ect to treatment taken at a 
Homeopathic / Unani hospital confirming with our de finition of hospital and which is registered with a ny of 
the local  Government bodies for the said purpose. 
 
11.  Domiciliary Hospitalisation:  Insurer  will cover Reasonable  and Customary Expenses  towards Domiciliary 
Hospitalisation  subject to 20% of the Sum Insured maximum up to INR 20000 whichever is less and 
according to the definition of domiciliary Hospitalisation  as given in the policy Schedule .  
  
12.  Organ Donor:  The Medical Expenses incurred for extraction of th e required organ from the organ donor 
are covered under the policy  subject to  Insurer  accepting the inpatient Hospitalisation  claim made by the 
Insured  and further provided that: 
i)  The organ donor is the Insured Person ’s blood relative or is an individual who can donat e the organ 
as per the local law and as approved by the medical  board of the hospital where the organ 
extraction is taking place and the organ donated is  for the use of the Insured Person , and 
ii)  We will not pay the donor’s pre- and post- Hospitalisation  expenses or any other medical 
treatment for the donor consequent on the organ ext raction. 
iii)  All the expenses incurred on the donor/donee, as ab ove would be within the overall Sum Insured 
of the Insured Person  under the Policy  and as specified in the policy Schedule . 
 
However, all admissible claims under above coverage ’s during the policy period restricted maximum up t o 
the Sum Insured as stated in the  Policy Schedule per  Policy Period. 
 
13.  Free medical check-up:  For every four claim-free consecutive years during  which policyholder has been 
Insured  with Insurer  without any break in insurance, Insurer  may arrange a free medical check-up for 
Insured  in Insurer’s  empanelled diagnostic centre or Insurer  shall reimburse the cost incurred by Insured  
for the check-up subject to maximum 1% of Sum Insured up to a maximum of INR 2500.      
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
 
14.  Parental Care:  Available for persons above 60 years of age.   Insurer  shall pay for the attendant nursing 
Expenses after discharge from the hospital for INR 500 or actual whichever is lesser per day up to a 
maximum 10 days per Hospitalisation of such  Insured Person  subject to the treating Medical Practitioner  
at the hospital where the Hospitalisation  took place, recommending the duration of such nurs ing care 
requirement.  The Expenses can be reimbursed for a period not exceeding 15 days during the entire Poli cy 
period. The attendant nurse must qualify Insurer’s  definition and attendance is required as per treat ing 
Medical Practitioner ’s opinion. 
 
15.  Accidental Hospitalisation  -In case of hospitalization following an Accident,  Sum Insured limit available for 
the Insured Person  will be 125% of the amount arrived after deducting  the claims paid and/or outstanding 
from sum insured as on the date of accident for the  Insured Person  under the policy and excluding 
cumulative bonus accrued.  Any such increase in sum  insured over and above the base sum insured due to  
the operation of this clause would be restricted to  a maximum of INR 1,00,000/- only.  This benefit is  payable 
only once per Insured Person during the policy peri od and only once irrespective of number of such 
accidental hospitalisations during the policy perio d for policies covered under Family Floater cover. 
 
16.  Child Care:  Insurer  shall pay for the attendant escort Expenses of INR  500 for each completed day of 
Hospitalisation of  a child below 10 years of age, subject to maximum o f 30 days during the Policy Period. 
Escort person includes mother, father, grandfather,  grandmother and any immediate family member. 
 
17.  Co-pay:  For all admissible claims in non-network hospitals , Insured  shall bear 10% of the admissible claim 
in addition to the excess as per terms of insurance  
 
18.  Convalescence Benefit:  This benefit is available for Insured  Person’s aged above 10 years & below 60 years 
and we shall pay an amount of INR 5,000/- per Insur ed, if the Insured Person  is hospitalised for any bodily 
injury or illness as covered under the Policy, for a period of 10 consecutive days or more. This benef it is 
payable only once per Insured  during the policy period. 
 
EXCLUSIONS 
 
We will not pay for any expenses incurred by Insured  in respect of claims arising out of or howsoever r elated to any 
of the following: 
 
1.  Pre existing Diseases Exclusion: 
 
Benefits will not be available for Any condition, w hether diagnosed or not, ailment or injury or relat ed 
condition(s) for which Insured  has been diagnosed, received medical treatment,  h ad signs and / or 
symptoms, prior to inception of Insured’s  first Policy, until 48 consecutive months have ela psed, after the 
date of inception of the first Policy with Insurer . It would also mean any direct or indirect complic ations 
arising out of pre-existing conditions whether know n or unknown to the Insured . 
 
This Exclusion shall cease to apply if Insured  has maintained the Health Insurance Policy with Insurer  for a 
continuous period of a full 4 years without break f rom the date of Insured’s  first Health Insurance Policy 
with Insurer . 
 
This Exclusion shall also apply to the extent of th e amount by which the limit of indemnity has been 
increased if the Policy is a renewal of the Health Insurance Policy with Insurer without break in cove r.       
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
 
In case of rollover/renewal policies issued by any Other Insurer which are accepted by us   
the following conditions would be applicable for co verage of exclusion of Pre-Existing diseases/condit ions 
but only up to the sum insured limit under the expi ring policy held by the insured.   
 
 
 If the Insured  is covered continuously and without interruption f or at least 4 years under any 
Other  Insurer’s  individual health insurance policy for the reimbur sement of medical costs for 
inpatient treatment in a Hospital, then the pre-exi sting condition stands waived. 
 If the Insured  is covered continuously and without interruption f or at least 3 years under any other 
Insurer’s  individual health insurance policy for the reimbur sement of medical costs for inpatient 
treatment in a Hospital, then the pre-existing cond ition stands waived after a waiting period of 1 
year from commencement of Policy. 
 If the Insured  is covered continuously and without interruption f or at least 2 years under any other 
Insurer’s  individual health insurance policy for the reimbur sement of medical costs for inpatient 
treatment in a Hospital, then the pre-existing cond ition stands waived after a waiting period of 2 
years from commencement of Policy. 
 If the Insured  is covered continuously and without interruption f or at least 1 year under any other 
Insurer’s  individual health insurance policy for the reimbur sement of medical costs for inpatient 
treatment in a Hospital, then the pre-existing cond ition stands waived after a waiting period of 3 
year from commencement of Policy. 
 
 
2.  Exclusions applicable to first 30 days of cover fro m commencement of Policy: 
Medical Expenses incurred for any disease / illness  or diagnosable within 30 days, of the 
commencement (Commencement Date of first Health Ins urance Policy with us) of the Policy Period 
except those incurred as a result of Accidental Bod ily Injury.  
 
This Exclusion shall also apply to the extent of th e amount by which the limit of indemnity has been 
increased if the Policy is a renewal of the Health Insurance Policy with Insurer  without break in 
cover. 
 
If the policy is a renewal / rollover from any Other Insurer  and if the Insured  is covered 
continuously for at least 1 year under a individual  health insurance policy for the reimbursement 
of medical costs for inpatient treatment in a Hospi tal, this exclusion stands waived  
3.  Exclusions applicable to first year of cover from c ommencement of the Policy, from the following Disea ses 
/ Illness and its related complications: 
Any types of gastric or duodenal ulcers,  
Tonsillectomy, Adenoidectomy, Mastoidectomy, Tympan oplasty 
Surgery on all internal or external tumor /cysts/no dules/polyps of any kind including breast 
lumps 
All types of Hernia and Hydrocele 
Anal Fissures, Fistula and Piles 
This Exclusion shall also apply only to the extent of the amount by which the limit of indemnity has 
been increased if the Policy is a renewal of the He alth Insurance Policy with Insurer  without break 
in cover. 
     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
If the policy is a renewal / rollover from any Other Insurer  and if the Insured  is covered 
continuously for at least 1 year under a individual  health insurance policy for the reimbursement 
of medical costs for inpatient treatment in a Hospi tal, this exclusion stands waived provided that 
the Insured  establishes to the Insurer’s  satisfaction that Insured  was unaware of and had not taken 
any advice or medication for such Illness or treatm ent. 
 
4.  Exclusions applicable to first two years of cover f rom commencement of the Policy, from the following 
Diseases / Illness and its related complications: 
Cataract 
Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy 
Hysterectomy/ myomectomy for menorrhagia or fibromy oma or prolapse of uterus 
Hypertension, Heart Disease and related complicatio ns  
Diabetes and related complications 
Non infective Arthritis, Treatment of Spondylosis /  Spondylitis, Gout & Rheumatism  
Surgery of Genitourinary tract 
Calculus Diseases of any etiology 
Sinusitis and related disorders 
Surgery for prolapsed intervertebral disc unless ar ising from accident 
Surgery of varicose veins and varicose ulcers 
Chronic Renal failure including dialysis 
 
This Exclusion shall also apply only to the extent of the amount by which the limit of indemnity has 
been increased if the Policy is a renewal of the He alth Insurance Policy with Insurer  without break 
in cover. 
 
If the policy is a renewal / rollover from any Other Insurer  and if the Insured  is covered 
continuously and without interruption/break in insu rance for at least 2 years under a individual 
health insurance policy for the reimbursement of me dical costs for inpatient treatment in a 
Hospital, this exclusion stands waived provided tha t the Insured  establishes to the Insurer’s  
satisfaction that Insured Person  was unaware of and had not taken any advice or med ication for 
such Illness or treatment.  
 
5.  Exclusions applicable to first three years of cover  from commencement of the Policy, from the followin g 
Diseases / Illness and its related complications: 
 
Medical Expenses incurred during or in connection w ith joint replacement surgery due to 
Degenerative condition, Age related osteoarthritis and Osteoporosis unless such joint replacement 
surgery is necessitated by accidental Bodily Injury . 
 
This Exclusion shall apply only to the extent of th e amount by which the limit of indemnity has 
been increased if the Policy is a renewal of the He alth Insurance Policy with Insurer  without break 
in cover. 
 
If the policy is a renewal / rollover from any Other Insurer   and if the Insured  is covered 
continuously and without interruption/break in insu rance for at least 3 years under an individual 
health insurance policy for the reimbursement of me dical costs for inpatient treatment in a 
Hospital, this exclusion stands waived provided tha t the Insured  establishes to the Insurer’s      
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
satisfaction that Insured  was unaware of and had not taken any advice or med ication for such 
Illness or treatment. 
6.  Treatment outside India. 
7.  Epidemics recognized by WHO or/and Indian governmen t. Government screening programs, etc are not 
covered by this policy. 
8.  War, invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities  (whether war be declared or not), civil war, commo tion, 
unrest, rebellion, revolution, insurrection, milita ry or usurped power or confiscation or nationalisat ion or 
requisition of or damage by or under the order of a ny government or public local authority. 
9.  Injury or Disease directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by nuclear weapons/materials. 
10.  Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of a di sease, illness or injury not excluded hereunder, or , as 
may be necessitated due to an accident  
11.  Cosmetic or aesthetic treatments of any description , treatment or surgery for change of life/gender, L asik 
treatment for refractive error. Any form of plastic  surgery (unless necessary for the treatment of Ill ness or 
accidental Bodily Injury). 
12.  The cost of spectacles, contact lenses, hearing aid s, crutches, wheelchairs, artificial limbs, denture s, artificial 
teeth and all other external appliances. Prosthesis  and/or devices. 
13.  Expenses incurred on Items for personal comfort lik e television, telephone, etc. incurred during 
hospitalization and which have been specifically ch arged for in the hospitalisation bills issued by th e 
hospital/nursing home.   
14.  External medical equipment of any kind used at home  as post Hospitalisation  care including cost of 
instrument used in the treatment of Sleep Apnoea Sy ndrome (C.P.A.P), Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal 
Dialysis (C.A.P.D) and Oxygen concentrator for Bron chial Asthmatic condition. 
15.  Dental treatment or surgery of any kind unless requ ired as a result of Accidental Bodily Injury to nat ural 
teeth requiring hospitalization treatment. 
16.  Convalescence, general debility, “Run-down” conditi on, rest cure, Congenital Internal and /or external  
illness/disease/defect. 
17.  Intentional self-injury (including but not limited to the use or misuse of any intoxicating drugs or a lcohol) 
and any violation of law or participation in an eve nt/activity that is against law with a criminal int ent. 
18.  Any complications arising out of or ailments requir ing treatment due to use or abuse of any substance,  drug 
or alcohol and treatment for de-addiction. 
19.  Any condition directly or indirectly caused by or a ssociated with Human Immunodeficiency Virus or 
Variant/mutant viruses and or any syndrome or condi tion of a similar kind commonly referred to as AIDS . 
20.  Venereal disease or any sexually transmitted diseas e or sickness. 
21.  Treatment arising from or traceable to pregnancy ch ildbirth, miscarriage, abortion or complications of  any 
of this, including caesarian section. However, this  exclusion will not apply to abdominal operation fo r extra 
uterine pregnancy (Ectopic Pregnancy), which is pro ved by submission of Ultra Sonographic Report and 
certification by Gynecologist that it is life threa tening.  
22.  Any fertility, sub fertility or assisted conception  operation or sterilization procedure and related t reatment. 
23.   Vaccination or inoculation except as part of post- bite treatment for animal bite. 
24.   Vitamins, tonics, nutritional supplements unless f orming part of the treatment for injury or disease as 
certified by the attending Medical Practitioner . 
25.  Surgery to correct deviated septum and hypertrophie d turbinate unless necessitated by an accidental bo dy 
injury and proved to our satisfaction that the cond ition is a result of an accidental injury. 
26.  Treatment for any mental illness or psychiatric or psychological ailment / condition. 
27.  Medical Practitioner ’s home visit Expenses during pre and post hospital ization period, Attendant Nursing 
Expenses unless more than 60 years as specified in the parental care benefit.     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
28.  Outpatient Diagnostic, Medical and Surgical procedu res or treatments, non-prescribed drugs and   medic al 
supplies, Hormone replacement therapy, Sex change o r treatment which results from or is in any way 
related to sex change. 
29.  Any treatment required arising from Insured’s  participation in any hazardous activity including but not 
limited to all forms of skiing, scuba diving, motor  racing, parachuting, hang gliding, rock or mountai n 
climbing etc unless specifically agreed by the Insurer . 
30.  Genetic disorders and stem cell implantation / surg ery/storage. 
31.  Expenses incurred at Hospital or Nursing Home prima rily for diagnosis irrespective of 24 hours 
hospitalization without diagnosis of any disease wh ich does not require any follow up treatment covere d 
under this policy. This would also include stay in a hospital without undertaking any treatment or whe re 
there is no active regular treatment by the Medical Practitioner , which ordinarily can be given without 
hospitalization.  
32.  Treatments in health hydro, spas, nature care clini cs and the like. 
33.  Treatments taken at any institution which is primar ily a rest home or convalescent facility, a place f or 
custodial care, a facility for the aged or alcoholi c or drug addicts or for the treatment of psychiatr ic or mental 
disorders; even if the institution has been registe red as a hospital or nursing home with the Appropri ate 
Authorities 
34.  Treatment with alternative medicines like acupunctu re, acupressure, osteopath, naturopathy, chiropract ic, 
reflexology and aromatherapy. 
35.  Expenses incurred primarily for diagnostics, x-ray or laboratory examinations, or other diagnostics st udies 
not consistent with or incidental to diagnosis and treatment of the positive existence or presence of any 
disease, illness or injury, for which confinement i s required at a hospital or nursing home or at home  under 
domiciliary hospitalization as defined. 
36.  Hospitalization for donation of any body organs by an Insured Person  including complications arising from 
the donation of organs. 
37.  Treatment for obesity, weight reduction or weight m anagement. 
38.  Experimental and unproven treatment. 
39.  Costs of donor screening or treatment 
40.  Disease / injury illness whilst performing duties a s a serving member of a military or police force. 
41.   Any kind of Service charges, Surcharges, Admission  fees / Registration charges etc levied by the hosp ital. 
 
General Conditions 
 
a)  Due Care 
Where this Policy requires Insured to do or not to do something, then the complete satisfaction of tha t 
requirement by Insured or someone claiming on Insur ed behalf is a precondition to any obligation under  this 
Policy. If Insured or someone claiming on Insured b ehalf fails to completely satisfy that requirement,  then 
Insurer may refuse to consider Insured claim. Insur ed will cooperate with Insurer at all times. 
b)  Mis-description 
This Policy shall be void and premium paid shall be  forfeited to Insurer in the event of misrepresenta tion, mis-
description or non-disclosure of any materials fact s pertaining to the proposal form, written declarat ions or any 
other communication exchanged for the sake of obtai ning the Insurance policy by the Insured.   Nondisc losure 
shall include non-intimation of any circumstances w hich may affect the insurance cover granted.  The 
Misrepresentation, mis-description and non-disclosu re is related to the information provided by the 
proposer/insured to the Insurer at any point of tim e starting from seeking the insurance cover in the form of 
submitting the filled in proposal form, written dec larations or any other communication exchanged for the sake 
of obtaining the Insurance policy and ends only aft er all the Contractual obligations under the policy  are 
exhausted for both the parties under the contract.     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
c)  Insured Person 
Only those persons named as the Insured Person in t he Schedule shall be covered under this Policy. The  details 
of the Insured Person are as provided by Insured. A  person may be added as an Insured Person during th e Policy 
Period after Insured’s Proposal has been accepted b y Insurer, an additional premium has been paid and Insurer’s 
agreement to extend cover has been indicated by it issuing an endorsement confirming the addition of s uch 
person as an Insured. Cover under this Policy shall  be withdrawn from any Insured Person upon such Ins ured 
giving 15 days written notice to be received by Ins urer 
d)  Package Service Expenses as defined under the policy will be payable only if  prior approval for the said package 
service is provided by Administrator / Insurer upon  the request of the Insured Person or Insured 
         Communications: 
1.  Any communication meant for Insurer  must be in writing and be delivered to Insurer’s  address 
shown in the Schedule . Any communication meant for Insured  will be sent by Insurer  to Insured’s  
address shown in the Schedule /Endorsement. 
2.  All notifications and declarations for Insurer  must be in writing and sent to the address specifi ed 
in the Schedule . Agents are not authorized to receive notices and declarations on Insurer’s  behalf. 
3.  Insured  must notify Insurer  of any change in address. 
e)  Unhindered access 
The Insured/Insured person shall extend all possibl e support & co-operation including necessary author isation 
to the insurer for accessing the medical records an d medical practitioners who have attended to the pa tient. 
 
f)  Claims Procedures   
 
I.  Claims Procedure for Reimbursement: 
1.  The Insured  shall without any delay consult a Doctor and follo w the advice and treatment 
recommended, take reasonable step to minimize the q uantum of any claim that might be made 
under this Policy and intimation to this effect mus t be forwarded to Insurer  accordingly. 
2.  Insured  must provide intimation to Insurer  immediately and in any event within 48 hours from the 
date of Hospitalisation  . However the Insurer  at his sole discretion may relax this condition su bject 
to a justifiable reason/evidence being produced by the Insured  on the reasons for such a delay 
beyond the stipulated 48 hours up to a maximum peri od of 7 days.   
3.  Insured has to file the claim with all necessary documentat ion within 15 days of discharge from 
the Hospital, provide Insurer  with written details of the quantum of any claim a long with all the 
original bills, receipts and other docum ents upon which a claim is based and shall also give  Insurer  
such additional information and assistance as Insurer  may require in dealing with the claim. In case 
of delayed submission of claim and in absence of a justified reason for delayed submission of claim, 
the Insurer  would have the right of not considering the claim for reimbursement.  
4.  In respect of post hospitalization claims, the clai ms must be lodged within 15days from the 
completion of post Hospitalisation  treatment subject to maximum of 75 days from the d ate of 
discharge from hospital. 
5.  The Insured shall submit himself for examination by  the Insurer’s medical advisors as often as may 
be considered necessary by the Insurer for establis hing the liability under the Policy.  The Insurer 
will reimburse the amount towards the expenses incu rred for the said medical examination to the 
Insured. 
6.  Insured  must submit all original bills, receipts, certific ates, information and evidences from the 
attending Medical Practitioner  /Hospital /Diagnostic Laboratory as required by Insurer .     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
7.  On receipt of intimation from Insured  regarding a claim under the policy, Insurer /Administrator  is 
entitled to carry out examination and obtain inform ation on any alleged Injury or Disease requiring 
Hospitalisation  if and when Insurer  may reasonably require. 
 
II.  Claims procedure for Cashless: 
 Administrator  will provide the User guide & identity card to Insured . User guide will have 
following details: 
 Contact details of all Administrator offices 
 Website address of Administrator 
 Network list of hospitals with their contact detail s 
 Claim submission guidelines. 
 
III.  Claims Submission 
 Insured  will submit the claim documents to administrator. Following is the document list for claim 
submission: 
 Duly filled Claim form,  
 Valid Photo Identity Card 
 Original Discharge card/certificate/ death summary 
 Copies of prescription for diagnostic test, treatme nt advise, medical references 
 Original set of investigation reports 
 Itemized original hospital bill and receipts Hospit al and related original medical expense 
receipt Pharmacy bills in original with prescriptio ns 
 
IV.  Claims Processing 
On receipt of claim documents from Insured , Insurer/Administrator  shall assess the admissibility of claim 
as per Policy terms and conditions.   Upon satisfac tory completion of assessment and admission of clai m, 
the Insurer  will make the payment of benefit as per the contra ct.  In case the claim is repudiated Insurer  
will inform the Insured  about the same in writing with reason for repudiat ion.  
 
g)  Cumulative Bonus  
If no claim has been made under the policy with us and the policy is renewed with us and without any b reak 
or within the Grace period as defined under the pol icy, we will allow a cumulative bonus to the renewa l 
policy upon receipt of premium automatically by inc reasing the Sum Insured by 5%. The maximum 
cumulative bonus shall not exceed 25% of the Sum Insured in any policy year. The cumulative bonus to be 
offered is as mentioned below: 
 
1.  In case of a family floater cover, the cumulative b onus so applied will depend on the claim/claims 
made under the expiring policy and will be 5% of Sum Insured for a claim free year and subject to 
a maximum of 25% of Sum Insured in any policy year. 
2.  In case of a claim in the Policy the Cumulative Bon us if any under the policy will get reduced to Nil 
at the time of renewal, in the renewed policy.  Als o, in case of a policy issued to a Family  with 
specific Sum Insured to Insured Person s, the Cumulative Bonus for the Insured Person  who has 
made the claim under the policy gets reduced to NIL  in the following year in the renewed policy. 
3.  In case of a policy being renewed with us and which  was previously covered with other Indian 
Insurer s, we will be offering a maximum cumulative bonus o f 20% of Sum Insured provided the 
Insured  submits the renewal notice and policy copy reflect ing a no claim bonus/cumulative bonus 
equivalent or more than 25%.  In case of no claim b onus enjoyed with previous Insurer s being less  
      
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
than 25%, a deduction of 5% will be made from the %  of no claim bonus enjoyed and the balance 
will be allowed under the policy, as no claim bonus /cumulative bonus.  However, this benefit will 
be restricted only up to the sum insured as provide d under the previous or expiring policy obtained 
by the Insured from Other Insurer. 
4.  In case of increase in the Sum Insured on renewal of the Policy Cumulative bonus will be a pplicable 
on the increased Sum Insured only from the next year subject to no claims and wi ll start from 5% 
and may / may not be similar to the cumulative bonu s on the basic Sum Insured at the inception 
of the Policy with us.  
5.  The accumulated cumulative bonus is available to th e insured person only upon exhaustion of the 
basic sum insured under the policy and all the elig ibility criteria for the ascertaining the applicabl e 
limits under the policy will be calculated basing o n the base sum insured. 
 
h)  Basis of claims payment 
 
a)  If Insured  suffer a relapse within 45 days of the discharge f rom Hospital, obtaining medical treatment 
or consulting a Doctor and for which a claim has be en made, then such relapse shall be deemed to be 
part of the same claim, as long as the relapse occu rs within the Policy Period. 
b)  The day care procedures listed are subject to the e xclusions, terms and conditions of the Policy and w ill 
not be treated as independent coverage under the Po licy. 
c)  The plan which Insured  is covered for will be shown on the Schedule . The table below sets out the 
percentage of the eligible claim amount that Insurer  will be accountable for where a claim cost is 
incurred in a Location other than that prescribed i n the Schedule . 
 
Benefit Plan Treatment 
Location A-
Mumbai and Delhi Treatme nt Location 
B -Chennai, Kolkata, 
Bangalore, 
Ahmedabad, 
Hyderabad Treatment 
Location C- Rest 
of India 
Plan A (Normal residential location -
Mumbai & Delhi)  100% 100% 100% 
Plan B ( Normal residential location -
Chennai, Kolkata, Bangalore, 
Ahmedabad, Hyderabad ) 80% 100% 100% 
Plan C (Normal residential location -
Rest of India ) 70% 80% 100% 
 
 Plan A - 100% of the admissible claim amount for al l Locations subject to the Policy terms and 
conditions. 
 Plan B - 100% of the admissible claim amount for Lo cations B and C, and 80% for Location A subject to 
the Policy terms and conditions.,  
 Plan C - 100% of the admissible claim amount for Lo cations C, 80% for Location B and 70% for 
Location A subject to the Policy terms and conditio ns.  
The percentage of amount shown in the above table i s with respect to the admissible claim amount.  The  Insurer  
will make payments only after being satisfied, with  the necessary bills and documents submitted with r eference 
to the claim. 
      
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
i)  Multiple policies  
At any point of time, if it is found that there are  multiple policies obtained by the Insured covering  
hospitalisation reimbursement benefit provided by t his policy and such information on other existing 
hospitalisation reimbursement/health insurance poli cies is not declared/provided to us in the proposal  
form, the policy issued thereof stands cancelled ab  initio treating the same as violation of clause (b ) j 
j)  Mis-description  under the general conditions in the policy and no liability exists under the policy for the 
disease/illness contracted by the insured. In such an event the premium collected under the policy wou ld be 
refunded to the insured without any deduction for t he expense incurred by the insurer for issuance of such 
policy and without any interest.   In case of full and complete declaration of policies held with us a nd or with 
Other Insurers, our liability under the policy woul d be as under: 
 All the policies being insured with us, the maximum  liability for the company would be the sum 
insured under all such policies put together. 
 If there are policies with us and also with other i nsurers, the Company shall not be liable to pay or 
contribute more than its rateable proportion of any  expense incurred towards the covered benefit 
by the insured person. 
 
k)  Fraudulent Claims  
If any claim is in any respect fraudulent, or if an y false statement or declaration is made or used in  support 
thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the Insured  / Insured Person  or anyone acting on his 
or her behalf to obtain any benefits under the Poli cy, all benefits under this Policy shall be forfeit ed.  The Insurer  
will have the right to reclaim all benefits paid in  respect of a claim which is fraudulent as mentione d above under 
this Condition as well as under General Condition N o c of this Policy.   
 
l)  Subrogation  
Insured and/or any Insured Persons shall at their o wn expense do or concur in doing or permit to be do ne 
all such acts and things that may be necessary or r easonably required by Insurer for the purpose of en forcing 
and/or securing any civil or criminal rights and re medies or obtaining relief or indemnity from any ot her 
party to which Insurer would become entitled upon I nsurer making reimbursement under this Policy, 
whether such acts or things shall be or become nece ssary or required before or after our payment.  Nei ther 
Insured nor any Insured Person shall prejudice thes e subrogation rights in any manner and shall at you r 
own expense provide Insurer with whatever assistanc e or cooperation is required to enforce such rights . 
Any recovery Insurer make pursuant to this clause s hall first be applied to the amounts paid or payabl e by 
Insurer under this Policy and our costs and expense s of affecting a recovery, where after Insurer shal l pay 
any balance remaining to Insured.  However, this cl ause will not apply to the benefit based sections o f this 
policy. 
 
m)  Renewal & Cancellation  
a.  Ordinarily renewals will not be refused /cancellati on will not be invoked by Insurer  except on 
ground of fraud, moral hazard or misrepresentation.  
b.  Every renewal premium (which shall be paid and acce pted in respect of this Policy) shall be so paid 
and accepted upon the distinct understanding that n o alteration has taken place in the facts 
contained in the proposal or declaration herein bef ore mentioned and that nothing is known to 
the Insured  that may increase the risk to the Insurer  under the coverage provided hereunder.  In 
case any disease /illness is contracted during the last 12 months (whether a claim is made or not 
with the Insurer ), the information on the same needs to be provided  to us at the time of renewal.   
c.  The Policy will automatically terminate at the end of the Policy Period and we are under no 
obligation to give notice that it is due for renewa l.     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
d.  In case of a Policy that has expired/ not renewed w ith the Insurer  before the end date of period of 
Insurance and being renewed upon specific acceptanc e by the Insurer  within 15 days from the 
date of expiry, the cover would be without loss of continuity benefits of waiting period and 
coverage of Pre-existing diseases. However, Coverag e is not available for the period for which no 
premium is received and any complications arising f rom any illness/disease/accident during such 
period of break in Insurance is not covered under t he Policy. 
e.  In the event of any renewal of the policy after 15 days from the expiry of the policy, the same will 
be treated as a fresh policy and all the terms and conditions of the policy will be applicable. 
f.  Insurer  may cancel this insurance by giving Insured  at least 15 days written notice and shall refund 
a pro-rata premium for the unexpired Policy Period.   
g.  Insured  may cancel this insurance by giving Insurer  at least 15 days written notice, and if no claim 
has been made then the Insurer  shall refund premium on short term rates for the u nexpired Policy 
Period as per the rates detailed below. 
Period on risk Rate of premium refunded 
Up to one month 75% of annual rate 
Up to three months 50%of annual rate 
Up to six months 25% of annual rate 
Exceeding six months Nil 
 
n)  Dispute Resolution 
a.   If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under this Policy ( liability be ing 
otherwise admitted) such difference shall independe ntly of all other questions be referred to the 
decision of a sole Arbitrator to be appointed in wr iting by the parties to the dispute/difference, or if 
they cannot agree upon a single Arbitrator within 3 0 days of any party invoking arbitration, the same 
shall be referred to a panel of 3 Arbitrators, one arbitrator to be appointed by each of the parties t o 
the dispute/difference and the third Arbitrator to be appointed by such two Arbitrators and the 
arbitration shall be conducted under and in accorda nce with the provisions of the Arbitration and 
Conciliations Act 1996. 
b.  It is hereby agreed and understood that no dispute or difference shall be referable to arbitration, as  
hereinbefore provided, if the Insurer  has disputed or not accepted liability under or in  respect of this 
Policy. 
c.  It is expressly stipulated and declared that it sha ll be a condition precedent to any right of action or suit 
upon this Policy that the award by such Arbitrator/ Arbitrators of the amount of the loss shall be firs t 
obtained. 
The law of the arbitration shall be Indian law and the seat of the arbitration and venue for all the h earings 
shall be within India. 
o)  Examination of Medical Records: Insurer  may examine Insured Person’s  medical records/reports and related 
documents relating to the insurance under this Poli cy at any time during the Policy Period and up to t hree 
years after the Policy expiry, or until final adjus tment (if any) and resolution of all claims under t his Policy 
p)  Geographical limits: All medical/surgical treatments under this policy s hall have to be taken in India and 
admissible claims thereof shall be payable in India n currency.  All matters or disputes arising hereun der the 
policy shall be determined in accordance with the l aw and practice of such Court within the Indian Ter ritory.     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
q)  Observance of terms and conditions: The due observance and fulfillment of the terms,  c onditions and 
endorsements of this Policy in so far as they relat e to anything to be done or complied with by the Insured  / 
Insured Person , shall be a condition precedent to any liability o f the Insurer   to make any payment under this 
Policy. 
r)  Forfeiture of claims: If any claim is made and rejected and no court acti on or suit commenced within 12 months 
after such rejection or, in case of arbitration tak ing place as provided herein, within 12 calendar mo nths after 
the Arbitrator or Arbitrators have made their award , all benefits under this Policy shall be forfeited . 
s)  Position after a claim: As from the day of receipt of the claim amount by t he Insured /Insured Person , the Sum 
Insured and / or duration of cover for the remainder of the  period of insurance shall stand reduced by a 
corresponding amount. 
t)  Payment of Claims in case of death during hospitali sation:  In the event of death of Primary Insured person on  
whose behalf covered medical expenses are incurred,  such admissible claim amount would be payable to t he 
legal heirs of the Primary Insured Person and If th e diseased person is other than the primary insured  person 
under the policy, we will pay such admissible claim  amounts to the Primary Insured Person.  The primar y 
insured person is the head of the family and who is  the primary earning member for the family. 
u)  Section 80 D Income-Tax Act: The premium paid is exempted from Income Tax under Sec 80 D of Income Tax 
act. 
v)  GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL PROCEDURE 
The Grievance Redressal Cell of the Insurer  looks into complaints from Insured s. If the Insured  has a 
grievance that the Insured  wishes the Insurer  to redress, the Insured  may approach the person 
nominated as ‘Grievance Redressal Officer’ with the  details of his grievance.  
Name, address, e-mail ID and contact number of the Grievance Redressal Officer will appear in the 
Policy document as well as on Insurer’s  website.   Further, the Insured  may approach the nearest 
Insurance Ombudsman for redressal of the grievance.  List of Ombudsman offices with contact details 
are attached for ready reference. For updated statu s, Please refer to website www.irdaindia.org.   
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office 
Date Of Taking Charge 
Union Territory,District) 
AHMEDABAD  - Shri Kuldip Singh  Gujarat, 
03-10-2019 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Dadra & Nagar Haveli, 
Jeevan Prakash  Building, 6th floor,  Daman and Diu. 
Tilak Marg, Relief Road,    
Ahmedabad – 380 001.    
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06    
Email:  bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in    
BENGALURU  - Smt. Neerja Shah  
Karnataka. 23-04-2018 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57 -27 -N-19  
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,  
JP Nagar, Ist Phase,  
Bengaluru – 560 078.  
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049  
Email:  bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in      
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava  Madhya Pradesh 
24-05-2018 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Chattisgarh. 
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,    
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office,    
Near New Market,    
Bhopal – 462 003.    
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202    
Fax: 0755 - 2769203    
Email:  bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in    
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra 
Panda 
Orissa. 11-09-2019 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
62, Forest park,  
Bhubneshwar – 751 009.  
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455  
Fax: 0674 - 2596429  
Email:  bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in  
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma  Punjab, 
16-04-2018 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Haryana, 
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,  Himachal Pradesh, 
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D,  Jammu & Kashmir, 
Chandigarh – 160 017.  Chandigarh. 
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468    
Fax: 0172 - 2708274    
Email:  bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in    
CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna  Tamil Nadu, 
03-05-2018 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Pondicherry Town and 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,  Karaikal (which are part of 
Pondicherry). 
Anna Salai, Teynampet,    
CHENNAI – 600 018.    
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284    
Fax: 044 - 24333664    
Email:  bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in    
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna  
Delhi. 12-09-2019 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,      
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
Asaf Ali Road,  
New Delhi – 110 002.  
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504  
Email:  bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in  
GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha  Assam, 
02-05-2018 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Meghalaya, 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,  Manipur, 
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,  Mizoram, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).  Arunachal Pradesh, 
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205  Nagaland and Tripura. 
Email:  bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in    
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu  Andhra Pradesh, 
11-06-2018 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Telangana, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",  Yanam and 
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,  part of Territory of 
Pondicherry. 
A. C. Guards, Lakdi -Ka -Pool,    
Hyderabad - 500 004.    
Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122    
Fax: 040 - 23376599    
Email:  bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in    
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga  
Rajasthan. 13-04-2018 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,  
Bhawani Singh Marg,  
Jaipur - 302 005.  
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363  
Email:  Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in  
  
ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra  Kerala, 
07-11-2018 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Lakshadweep, 
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,  Mahe -a part of 
Pondicherry. 
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road,    
Ernakulam - 682 015.    
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338    
Fax: 0484 - 2359336    
Email:  bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in        
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath  West Bengal, 
30-09-2019 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Sikkim, 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,  Andaman & Nicobar 
Islands. 
4, C.R. Avenue,    
KOLKATA - 700 072.    
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340    
Fax : 033 - 22124341    
Email:  bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in    
LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar 
Srivastava Districts of Uttar Pradesh : 
11-09-2019 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,6th 
Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331 
Fax: 0522 - 2231310 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, 
Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, 
Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, 
Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, 
Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, 
Barabanki, Raebareli, 
Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, 
Amethi, Kaushambi, 
Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, 
Sultanpur, Maharajgang, 
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, 
Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, 
Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, 
Chandauli, Ballia, 
Sidharathnagar. 
MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat  Goa,  
04-05-2018 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Mumbai Metropolitan  
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,  Region excluding Navi  
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),  Mumbai & Thane.   
Mumbai - 400 054.    
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960    
Fax: 022 - 26106052    
Email:  bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in    
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad  State of Uttaranchal and 
the following Districts of 
Uttar Pradesh: 17-09-2019     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, 
Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, 
Kanooj, Mainpuri, 
Mathura, Meerut, 
Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, 
Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, 
Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, 
Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, 
Sambhal, Amroha, 
Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, 
Saharanpur. 
Bhagwan Sahai Palace    
4th Floor, Main Road,    
Naya Bans, Sector 15,    
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,    
U.P -201301.    
Tel.: 0120 -2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253    
Email:  bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in    
PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh  Bihar, 
09-10-2019 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Jharkhand.  
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,,    
Bazar Samiti Road,    
Bahadurpur,    
Patna 800 006.    
Tel.: 0612 -2680952    
Email:  bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in    
PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah  Maharashtra, 
03-12-2019 Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  Area of Navi Mumbai and  
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,  Thane   excluding Mumbai  
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,  Metropolitan Region.  
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,    
Pune – 411 030.    
Tel.: 020 -41312555    
Email:  bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in    
 
STATUTORY NOTICE:  INSURANCE IS THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THE SOLICITATION  
     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
 
Annexure A - Day Care List 
 
The following are the listed Day care procedures an d such other Surgical Operation that necessitate le ss than 24 
hours Hospitalisation  due to medical/technological advancement / infrast ructure facilities and the coverage of 
which is subject to the terms, conditions and exclu sions of the policy 
 
Microsurgical operations on the middle ear  
1.  Stapedectomy 
2.  Revision of a stapedectomy 
3.  Other operations on the auditory ossicles 
4.  Myringoplasty (Type -I Tympanoplasty) 
5.  Tympanoplasty (closure of an eardrum perforation/re construction of the auditory ossicles) 
6.  Revision of a tympanoplasty 
7.  Other microsurgical operations on the middle ear 
Other operations on the middle & internal ear 
8.  Myringotomy 
9.  Removal of a tympanic drain 
10.  Incision of the mastoid process and middle ear 
11.  Mastoidectomy 
12.  Reconstruction of the middle ear 
13.  Other excisions of the middle and inner ear 
14.  Fenestration of the inner ear 
15.  Revision of a fenestration of the inner ear 
16.  Incision (opening) and destruction (elimination) of  the inner ear 
17.  Other operations on the middle and inner ear 
Operations on the nose & the nasal sinuses 
18.  Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the nose 
19.  Operations on the turbinates (nasal concha) 
20.  Other operations on the nose 
21.  Nasal sinus aspiration 
Operations on the eyes 
22.  Incision of tear glands 
23.  Other operations on the tear ducts 
24.  Incision of diseased eyelids 
25.  Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the eyelid 
26.  Incision of diseased eyelids 
27.  Operations on the canthus and epicanthus 
28.  Corrective surgery for entropion and ectropion 
29.  Corrective surgery for blepharoptosis 
30.  Removal of a foreign body from the conjunctiva     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
31.  Removal of a foreign body from the cornea 
32.  Incision of the cornea 
33.  Operations for pterygium 
34.  Other operations on the cornea 
35.  Removal of a foreign body from the lens of the eye 
36.  Removal of a foreign body from the posterior chambe r of the eye 
37.  Removal of a foreign body from the orbit and eyebal l 
38.  Operation of cataract 
Operations on the skin & subcutaneous tissues 
39.  Incision of a pilonidal sinus 
40.  Other incisions of the skin and subcutaneous tissue s 
41.  Surgical wound toilet (wound debridement) and remov al of diseased tissue of the skin and subcutaneous 
tissues 
42.  Local excision of diseased tissue of the skin and s ubcutaneous tissues 
43.  Other excisions of the skin and subcutaneous tissue s 
44.  Simple restoration of surface continuity of the ski n and subcutaneous tissues 
45.  Free skin transplantation, donor site 
46.  Free skin transplantation, recipient site 
47.  Revision of skin plasty 
48.  Other restoration and reconstruction of the skin an d subcutaneous tissues 
49.  Chemosurgery to the skin 
50.  Destruction of diseased tissue in the skin and subc utaneous tissues 
 
Operations on the tongue 
 
51.  Incision, excision and destruction of diseased tiss ue of the tongue 
52.  Partial glossectomy 
53.  Glossectomy 
54.  Reconstruction of the tongue 
55.  Other operations on the tongue 
 
Operations on the salivary glands & salivary ducts 
 
56.  Incision and lancing of a salivary gland and a sali vary duct 
57.  Excision of diseased tissue of a salivary gland and  a salivary duct 
58.  Resection of a salivary gland 
59.  Reconstruction of a salivary gland and a salivary d uct 
60.  Other operations on the salivary glands and salivar y ducts 
 
Other operations on the mouth & face 
61.  External incision and drainage in the region of the  mouth, jaw and face 
62.  Incision of the hard and soft palate 
     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
63.  Excision and destruction of diseased hard and soft palate 
64.  Incision, excision and destruction in the mouth 
65.  Plastic surgery to the floor of the mouth 
66.  Palatoplasty 
67.  Other operations in the mouth 
Operations on the tonsils & adenoids 
68.  Transoral incision and drainage of a pharyngeal abs cess 
69.  Tonsillectomy without adenoidectomy 
70.  Tonsillectomy with adenoidectomy 
71.  Excision and destruction of a lingual tonsil 
72.  Other operations on the tonsils and adenoids 
73.  Trauma surgery and orthopaedics 
74.  Incision on bone, septic and aseptic 
75.  Closed reduction on fracture, luxation or epiphyseo lysis with osteosynthesis 
76.  Suture and other operations on tendons and tendon s heath 
77.  Reduction of dislocation under GA 
78.  Arthroscopic knee aspiration 
Operations on the breast 
79.  Incision of the breast 
80.  Operations on the nipple 
 
Operations on the digestive tract 
 
81.  Incision and excision of tissue in the perianal reg ion 
82.  Surgical treatment of anal fistulas 
83.  Surgical treatment of haemorrhoids 
84.  Division of the anal sphincter (sphincterotomy) 
85.  Other operations on the anus 
86.  Ultrasound guided aspirations 
87.  Sclerotherapy etc. 
88.  Laparoscopic cholecystectomy 
 
 
Operations on the female sexual organs 
 
89.  Incision of the ovary 
90.  Insufflation of the Fallopian tubes 
91.  Other operations on the Fallopian tube 
92.  Dilatation of the cervical canal 
93.  Conisation of the uterine cervix 
94.  Other operations on the uterine cervix 
95.  Incision of the uterus (hysterotomy)     
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
96.  Therapeutic curettage 
97.  Culdotomy 
98.  Incision of the vagina 
99.  Local excision and destruction of diseased tissue o f the vagina and the pouch of Douglas 
100.  Incision of the vulva  
101.  Operations on Bartholin’s glands (cyst) 
 
Operations on the prostate & seminal vesicles 
102.  Incision of the prostate 
103.  Transurethral excision and destruction of prostate tissue 
104.  Transurethral and percutaneous destruction of prost ate tissue 
105.  Open surgical excision and destruction of prostate tissue 
106.  Radical prostatovesiculectomy 
107.  Other excision and destruction of prostate tissue 
108.  Operations on the seminal vesicles 
109.  Incision and excision of periprostatic tissue 
110.  Other operations on the prostate 
Operations on the scrotum & tunica vaginalis testis  
111.  Incision of the scrotum and tunica vaginalis testis  
112.  Operation on a testicular hydrocele 
113.  Excision and destruction of diseased scrotal tissue  
114.  Plastic reconstruction of the scrotum and tunica va ginalis testis 
115.  Other operations on the scrotum and tunica vaginali s testis 
 
Operations on the testes 
116.  Incision of the testes 
117.  Excision and destruction of diseased tissue of the testes 
118.  Unilateral orchidectomy 
119.  Bilateral orchidectomy 
120.  Orchidopexy 
121.  Abdominal exploration in cryptorchidism 
122.  Surgical repositioning of an abdominal testis 
123.  Reconstruction of the testis 
124.  Implantation, exchange and removal of a testicular prosthesis 
125.  Other operations on the penis 
      
SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company SBI General Insurance Company Limited Limited Limited Limited                                                         
 
 
SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited  SBI General Insurance Company Limited      
Corporate & Registered Office:   'Natraj', 301, Jun ction of  Western Express Highway & Andheri - Kurla  Road, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400 069  I 
CIN: U66000MH2009PLC190546  I    Tel.: +91 22 42412000 I   www.sbigeneral.in  I Logo displayed belongs to State Bank of India and is used 
by SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. under license  I IRDAI Registration Number 144  I  Product Name: Health Insurance Policy Retail. I  
UIN:  SBIHLIP11002V021011 I IRDAI Reg No.144 
Operations on the spermatic cord, epididymis und du ctus deferens 
126.  Surgical treatment of a varicocele and a hydrocele of the spermatic cord 
127.  Excision in the area of the epididymis 
128.  Epididymectomy 
129.  Reconstruction of the spermatic cord 
130.  Reconstruction of the ductus deferens and epididymi s 
131.  Other operations on the spermatic cord, epididymis and ductus deferens 
Operations on the penis 
132.  Operations on the foreskin 
133.  Local excision and destruction of diseased tissue o f the penis 
134.  Amputation of the penis 
135.  Plastic reconstruction of the penis 
136.  Other operations on the penis 
 
Operations on the urinary system 
137.  Cystoscopical removal of stones 
Other Operations 
138.  Lithotripsy 
139.  Coronary angiography 
140.  Haemodialysis 
141.  Radiotherapy for Cancer 
142.  Cancer Chemotherapy 
 